how to optimize your PPC landing pages
for SEO do you think SEO is his own
thing and operates independently from
other marketing channels think again
working with different stakeholders in
different divisions and aligning your
marketing efforts together is the only
way to unlock massive amounts of traffic
which means you need to start thinking
about how your PPC landing pages can be
vastly improved by incorporating SEO
into the mix landing pages are
absolutely essential in your marketing
strategy their average conversion rate
is 9.7 according to HubSpot companies
with 31 to 40 landing pages get seven
times more leads than those with only
one to five landing pages according to
HubSpot there are definitely parts of a
landing page that you can't afford to
overlook markers see a 4.42 drop in
conversions for every second of delayed
load time for their landing page another
thing that can hurt your conversion
rates is including more than one offer
that can decrease your conversion rates
by roughly 266 percent gives people
analysis process which one should I
choose
but maybe the most important one you
need to optimize your PPC landing page
for SEO seems funky right after all SEO
PPC one's organic one's paid but look
combining them can actually have some
major benefits with the performance of
your landing pages
now if you think about it every page
that has index in search needs to be
optimized for search creating a PPC
landing page without considering SEO can
mess up with your performance in two
notable ways if there's a PPC version of
existing SEO page the former could
definitely jeopardize the performance of
the latter Google's reset helpful
content update means that a PPC landing
page with low word and minimal content
can actually affect the overall
performance of your website even the
pages that have been optimized
previously for SEO long story short you
need to optimize your PPC landing pages
for SEO if you want them indexed and
here's how you do that tip one publish
to a custom URL if you're using content
Management Systems you'll have the
option to publish a page on a subdomain
or a subdirectory I recommend using a
subdirectory I don't recommend putting
your PPC landing pages on different
domain names people don't really do that
these days but we still see that every
once in a while so I thought I would
throw that out there and having your
landing page as a sub page what you'll
find is you can fine tune it put it in
the right hierarchy within your website
and the navigation structure and drive
traffic to a via direct visitors to your
website SEO and paid advertising tip two
perform keyword research now I know what
you're thinking you've already invested
in a PPC strategy so why would you need
to do keyword research because it's
essential the more research you perform
for your page the more likely you are to
find relevant keywords that help you get
more traffic on both the paid in and
organic end that your competition isn't
using long tail keywords are easier to
rank for than shorter ones so try to
look for three four or five word phrases
to get the most long tail traffic
what we find with our client sites at NP
digital over 80 percent of their traffic
typically comes from long tail words so
you can use tools like uber says and
answer the public to find these long
tail keywords and you want to include
them not just in your landing page but
within your title tag your meta
description your header tags image file
names when it makes sense and definitely
your copy tip number three don't sweat
the link I know what you're thinking hey
pay-per-click landing pages are meant to
be short for conversions SEO you got to
create all that content but that's not
really the case
SEO is about giving someone the answer
that they're looking for as quick as
possible that could be in 5 000 words
that could be in 100 words I've also
seen pay-per-click landing pages with 5
000 words do extremely well and better
than ones with a hundred words and I've
seen the opposite as well so with your
landing pages what you need to focus on
is are you giving people what they're
looking for as quick as possible do you
have clear ctas are you actually just
drowning people in content and just
overwhelming them because if that's the
case they're going to bounce away and
your content it doesn't have to be
text-based it can be images a picture
says a thousand words right it can be
videos there's a lot of ways to convert
people and you can actually get your
message across in many ways a landing
page with the video can also get video
SEO traffic right Google's indexing
videos as well and it shows up in the
serps whenever you do a search for a lot
of things like SEO tactics or tips
you'll see in many cases videos on page
one of Google
tip 4 speed up your loading process did
you know that 47 of people expect a page
to load in less than two seconds and
that forty percent of people will
abandon it entirely after just three
seconds
you might think that's not a lot of time
to form a first impression but clearly
your audience feels otherwise I've
talked a lot before about ux and House's
central part of Google strategy because
they're trying to optimize for a user
not links or meta description they
really care about what a user wants
because a user when they search they
don't look at like oh this listing has a
million backlinks it should ranked
number one they think about what's best
for them and did that page solve their
problem
and if you do that and put the user in
mind you're going to do better so doing
things like having smaller image files
right so that way they load faster
switching up to a faster web host or
using a CDM or shutting off all plugins
or extensions that your page isn't using
this all helps tip 5 secure backlinks
shocker securing backlinks still matters
yes it's not the end-all be-all factor
but if you can build links to your
pay-per-click landing pages you're going
to be better off so I want you to go to
ubersuggest and when you go to ubersus
you can type in any URL like your URL in
the left hand navigation I want you to
go to the backlink opportunities report
I want you to then add in a few of your
other competitors so if you take your
website and two or three of your
competitors you can see who links to
them and not you see if someone's wanted
to link to three or four of your
competitors they're not biased they're
not like oh we only like this brand
they're willing to link to anyone in
your space so if you can see the type of
content they link to find those pieces
of content that they're linking to on
your competitor sites that's similar to
your landing pages reach out to those
websites ask them to also link out to
you a portion will say yes and that'll
cause your pay-per-click landing pages
to also rank higher now if you want my
team to just do all this for you check
out my Ad Agency NP digital if you
enjoyed this video like it share it tell
the people about it subscribe to the
channel and if you have any questions
leave a comment below I'm here to answer
them and help you out